Welcome to this session on
internationalization tips and tricks.
My name is Dave DeLoong.
I am an engineer on the UI kit framework.
And today we're going to talk
about ways that you can improve
internationalizing your applications.
Now you're here because on Monday you
heard some really impressive things.
Things such as we have sold
over 365 million iOS devices.
Or that by the end of the year,
the app store will be
available to 155 countries.
Chances are most of your users
may not speak your language.
So we're going to talk about
things that you can do to
make your app work for them.
Now there is something to understand.
Is that for all of these users,
you should be creating one application.
The iOS app store in 155 countries does
not mean that you should be creating
155 versions of your application.
You should be creating one version.
That same version should work
for everyone regardless of
where they are in the world.
You do this by
internationalizing your app.
What does that mean?
Internationalization.
Is the process that we as developers
do to prepare our applications
to receive translated content.
This includes things like properly
formatting dates or numbers,
pulling out translated strings
from our strings table,
and so on.
This is in contrast to localization,
which is the process of actually
integrating that translated
content into our application.
Let's look at what a simple example
might be of localizing a resource.
On the left here,
we have selected a strings resource file.
In this case,
it's the resource for our Info.plist.
And we can see that it's currently
available in a single language.
If we want this resource to be
available in another language,
we'll simply click that plus
button there underneath English and
choose to add a new language,
such as Spanish, or we can see others
like Japanese or French.
That's all we have to do.
After we've done this,
we'll see that our resource is now
available in both English and Spanish.
And there are now two
versions of this file,
one for English and one for Spanish.
We have doubled the amount of
content that you need to localize,
but as is to be expected,
you need different content
for English and Spanish.
What happens when you do this is
that in your application directory,
we will create a new folder called a
Language Specific Project Directory,
or LPROJ.
Since we have two versions of our
resource in English and Spanish,
we have two lproj folders,
one for English, one for Spanish.
And any localized resource
in English will be located
within the en lproj folder,
and any Spanish localized resource will
be inside the Spanish lproj folder.
Dave DeLoong Localizing
resources is done this way,
no matter what kind of resource it is,
whether it's an interface builder file,
a strings table, an image, a plist,
you can all localize them the same way.
Dave DeLoong One key concept to
understand when dealing with translated
content is that there is a difference
between the language of your app
and the region in which it's running.
Dave DeLoong Here on the left,
we can see the list of languages
that are available to us.
Dave DeLoong Here on the right,
we can see the same
screen running on iOS.
Dave DeLoong Since the language
can be different from your locale,
here we can see English as our language,
but Thailand as our locale,
this can cause some
interesting situations.
Dave DeLoong For example,
the text of your application
might be in English,
but when you're formatting
dates or numbers,
they will be formatted according
to the title of your application.
Thailand locale region formats.
So the names of your months,
the decimal separators used in numbers,
etc., will all be formatted
according to the locale of Thailand.
However, your strings are translated
according to the language.
The main class that we use to determine
this information is called NSLocale.
NSLocale contains all of the linguistic,
technological,
and even cultural conventions and
standards for that particular region.
The way that we access the locale is
using the class method currentLocale.
This returns a static
object that does not change.
However,
since the user can change the locale
of their device... ...at any time,
you may also want to consider using
the auto-updating currentLocale.
This is a locale that will correctly
pick up any changes the user may
make to their date format settings,
to whether or not they want
time to show as in 12-hour
format versus 24-hour format,
and so on.
Regardless of which locale
object you're using,
you should be listening to the
NSCurrentLocaleDidChange notification.
This is a notification
posted by the system.
The system will then send a
notification to the system about
when these settings change.
When you receive this notification,
you should update your UI to
reflect the new locale settings.
So,
what are we going to talk about today?
We're going to talk about the four
main areas of localizing your content.
There are text, dates, numbers,
and images.
You'll notice that what we
are not going to talk about
is internationalizing your UI.
For that,
we recommend that you use AutoLayout,
which is available in
OS X Lion and now also in iOS 6.
We've already had two sessions on
AutoLayout on Tuesday and on Thursday,
so I encourage you to go check
out the videos for those sessions
when they become available.
So, let's start off with text.
Internationalizing your text
will be the bulk of your work
because text is also likely going
to be the bulk of your content.
The way that you access your
translated text is with some built-in
macros called NSLocalizeString.
There are a couple variants that
give you a little bit of flexibility
in where you want your translated
text to come from if you're
providing a default value and so on.
All of these macros are going
to be available in your app.
All of these macros are simply
wrappers around an NSBundle method
called LocalizeStringForKeyValueTable.
We'll see in a little bit
how that can be useful.
So where does our text come from?
It comes from something
called a string table.
A string table is a file that
lives inside your language
project directory and by default
it's called localizable.strings.
Localizable.string simply stores your
translated content in key value pairs,
very much like an NSDictionary.
So when you ask for a translated string,
it's simply going to
look through the file,
find the key that matches
the one you're looking for,
and return the corresponding value.
So where do these tables come from?
Well, if you want,
you can add them to your project yourself
simply by choosing to add a new file
and then adding a strings file resource.
However,
there is another way you can do it,
and that is using the
GenStrings command line utility.
As the name suggests,
GenStrings is a utility to
generate strings tables.
It is built into Mac OS X,
so you have it on all of your computers.
And because it's a command line utility,
it is easily integrated
into build scripts.
It is customizable,
so if you're using a custom macro,
it can handle that.
It can handle skipping various tables.
It can handle where you want to output
these generated tables to and so on.
For a complete list of
all the things it can do,
check out its man page.
So what does GenStrings do?
One way we might invoke
GenStrings is like this.
This is going to find in the
current directory any files whose
names end with the .m suffix.
So we found some.
It is then going to pass
those files off to GenStrings.
GenStrings will look through
those files for any uses of
the NSLocalizeString macro,
build up the strings table,
and then output it into
your English lproj folder.
When it comes across a localized
string macro inside your source code,
GenStrings is going to parse
the arguments and begin to
build an entry in the table.
The first argument is the key.
So GenStrings will simply take that and
copy it down and use that as the key.
Since this version of the
NSLocalizeString macro does
not provide a default value,
the same key will be reused as the value.
The second argument is a comment
to give some context to how
this string is being used,
and that is simply added to
the table as the comment.
Once GenStrings has generated this table,
we can then hand it
off to our translators,
and they can put in the
correct value for us.
So let's talk about some things
to be careful of when dealing
with internationalizing text.
First off,
you want to be very careful about using
an NSLocalizeString macro more than once.
Let's say your app puts up two alerts,
one asking if you want to run
a script and the other one
asking how you're feeling.
If you use the same
NSLocalizeString macro to provide
a title for the OK button,
You'll have something like this.
But then after reading these alerts,
you realize that the response
of OK is not quite what you
want for running a script.
You want it to say run.
And so you change your macro to use run.
After you do this,
you then rerun your app and notice
that it asks you how you are
feeling and gives you a response,
an option of run.
This is obviously not what we want.
So what we should be doing instead
is using two different macros,
one for the first alert
and one for the second.
This allows us to easily change
the text without affecting
any other parts of our UI.
You'll notice that we also updated
the comments to more accurately
reflect how these localized
string macros were being used.
This is because having little
to no context in our localized
string macros makes things very
difficult for our translators.
The comments are there for a reason.
Please use them.
When your translators
get your strings table,
this is what they do not want to see.
They don't want to see no
comment provided by the engineer.
And show really gives them no information
on what or how this string is being used.
Is show a verb, as in you want to show
something to the user?
Or is it a noun,
asking if they want to go see a show?
There's no way to know.
So please provide comments and
also use descriptive key names.
That makes things a lot
easier for your translators.
As engineers,
we are trained to decompose problems
into their most fundamental parts.
And this is a habit of which
we need to break ourselves when
dealing with internationalized text.
Composing strings can
be very problematic.
So remember that the unit of
translation is not the phrase,
but is the sentence.
This is because in many languages,
they have concepts of number and gender.
Some words may be masculine,
some may be feminine.
Some words may even need to be conjugated
to match the rest of the sentence.
As an example,
let's say that your text or your
application has two buttons.
One says go to next page and the
other says go to next chapter.
And so you decompose the problem
and you have go to next something.
And then you will substitute in
at runtime either page or chapter.
On the surface,
this may not seem like a bad idea.
However, when your translator
tries to translate this,
he's going to start with,
go to next page.
Well, page in many languages
is a feminine noun.
That means that the adjective next must
also match in both number and gender.
Some languages may even require the
definite article the to be in there,
which also must match
in number and gender.
So here we have a sentence with
three feminine singular words.
However,
when he goes to translate chapter,
He runs into problems.
That is because chapter in many
languages is a masculine noun,
which means that both the and next
must also match in number and gender.
They are different words,
and the result is that he cannot
translate this accurately.
Any attempt to translate this would
result in something that is incorrect.
Dave DeLoong He runs into problems.
That is because chapter in many
languages is a masculine noun,
which means that both the and next
must also match in number and gender.
Any attempt to translate this would
result in something that is incorrect.
There are times that we need to
display a list of strings to our users.
Perhaps we're ordering a list of users,
like an address book.
In these cases,
we should not be using the
compare method on NSString to
order this list of strings.
Instead,
we should be using the NSString method
localized standard compare.
This is a comparison that will take
into account the user's locale and
it will do a case sensitive and
diacritic sensitive comparison.
As such, you should avoid using case
and diacritic insensitivity.
Let's see why.
Our example is that we have
these eight strings in Swedish.
And we want to see how they get sorted
using these three NSString methods:
compare,
localized case-insensitive compare,
and localized standard compare.
If we sort them according
to the compare method,
we'll get this.
For users in your Swedish locale,
this is incorrect.
In Swedish,
A with the umlaut comes lexically after
all the other characters in the alphabet.
It is similar to-- it
comes after the letter Z.
Additionally,
the lowercase letters should
precede the uppercase letters.
So compare is the wrong thing
to use in this situation.
If we tried to do a
case-insensitive compare,
we'll get this.
The A with the umlaut is correctly
placed at the end of the list,
but because we want
everything to be consistent,
this is still wrong.
In some cases, uppercase letters come
before lowercase letters,
and so we should not use
case-insensitive searching either,
or sorting.
If we use localized standard compare,
we get the correct result.
Lowercase letters come first,
and the A with the umlaut
is at the end of the list.
Similar to sorting is
searching through strings.
Here you may use casein
diacritic insensitivity.
However,
You should avoid using range of string.
This is because range of string does
not take into account the user's locale.
It uses the system locale.
The system locale is the
ultimate fallback locale.
It is the locale to which all
other locales run if they can't
provide an answer themselves.
So when searching through strings,
please remember to specify the
locale yourself using the range of
strings options range locale method
passing in the current locale or
the auto updating current locale.
Some of our users may be running
their device in Hebrew or Arabic,
which are right to left languages.
However, for some of them,
and in some situations,
they can't find the correct location.
So they can actually have
mixed directionality.
So their right to left text can
contain left to right substrings.
For example,
if we have this string in Arabic,
it contains parts that are right to left,
a portion that is left to right,
and another part that is right to left.
However,
when this string is stored in memory,
it is stored in a single logical order.
And so if you are doing any
manipulations on this string,
such as needing to search
through this string character
by character or word by word,
you need to remember
about directionality.
On the subject of parsing,
the key thing to remember is that not
every character fits inside a unichar.
What does this mean?
Let's say we have the string
capital E with a cute accent and
we want to know how long it is.
Well, we use the length method, right?
So if we use the length method on
this string to see how long it is,
we'll get one.
Let's say that we've got the string
capital E with a cute accent and
we want to know how long it is.
So we use the length method
and ask it how long it is.
What do we get?
Two, of course.
What's going on?
Well, in the first situation,
capital E with a cute accent is
being stored as a single character.
The second example, however,
capital E with acute accent is actually
being stored as two characters,
the first being the capital
letter E and the second being
the combining acute accent mark,
which means to place an acute
accent over the previous character.
Extending this a little further,
let's say we want to know
how long Hamburger is.
And so we ask, and of course the length
of Hamburger is two.
Or we want to know how long
the US flag is and we ask,
and it is four characters long.
So if we were to try and iterate
through these strings using
length and character at index,
there are times where we
might get a whole character,
such as the first example,
or there are times where we might
only get one fourth of the character,
such as with the US flag.
So, you should avoid,
when dealing with user visible strings,
you should avoid using methods
such as character at index,
length, and also precompose string
with canonical mapping.
Dave DeLoong: They will often lead
you to the wrong result.
What you should use instead
is the NSString method,
enumerate substrings in
range options using block.
This is a method that allows
you to iterate over a string,
perhaps character by character,
and that will correctly take
into account combining accent
marks or emoji or et cetera.
Or you can iterate through
a string word by word.
Or sentence by sentence
or paragraph by paragraph.
And using this method,
you can count up how many
characters are in a string,
what's the 42nd word, et cetera.
So let's talk about some tips to make
dealing with text a little bit easier.
First off, you can use multiple tables.
You're not limited to just
localizable dot strings.
So going back to our original
example that we saw in the beginning,
we can add strings tables
for perhaps our app delegate,
the root view controller,
our data view controller.
Providing multiple strings tables adds
even more context to our translators.
They know that anything inside
the app delegate dot strings table
contains text that will only be
used by the application delegate.
Or text inside the root view controller
dot strings table will only be
used by the root view controller.
And so if they know what
is on those screens,
they get even more
contextual information.
This is also good for
encapsulation principles.
While you're building your application,
you should pseudo-localize it to help
you easily find places where you have
forgotten to use NSLocalizeString.
What is pseudo-localization?
It simply means to take your existing
strings and manipulate them in
such a way so that you can tell
if they've been translated or not.
So if we were to
pseudo-localize this screen,
perhaps we get something like this,
where we've inserted
hyphens between the strings.
between the word back.
[Transcript missing]
Now what about this thing down here?
Well, as it turns out,
that is the name January in Thai.
Why does this not have hyphens?
This doesn't have hyphens because it's
being provided by an NSDate formatter.
For things such as dates and numbers,
you do not need to
translate them yourselves.
They can be translated for you
by using the NSDate formatter
and NSNumber formatter classes.
On the subject of pseudo-localization,
you can also use custom macros,
as I mentioned earlier.
So normally,
you might use NSLocalizeString to
get the title of a back button.
What you can also do
is to find your own function,
in this case,
ICT root view controller string.
You can then define your own function,
ITT root view controller string
that takes a key and a comment,
just like NSLocalizeString.
And remember how NSLocalizeString
simply passes on to NSBundle to
find the correct string?
Well, we can do the same thing ourselves.
And then perhaps if we're
running in debug mode,
we can pseudo-localize it.
So we can encapsulate all of our
pseudo-localization logic in one
place without actually having to
generate entirely new strings files.
This also works with
the GenStrings utility.
With GenStrings,
you can tell it to instead of
looking for NSLocalizeString,
to look for ITTRootViewControllerString.
And then it will also look for
ITTRootViewControllerString in table,
ITTRootViewControllerString
with default value,
and so on.
Let's talk about dates.
We have observed many people doing
some pretty bad things with dates.
So let's talk about what a date is.
An NSDate object is simply a
wrapper around an NSTimeInterval.
That's it.
It is nothing more than that.
It is nothing less.
It is specifically a time interval
relative to a well-defined point in time.
It does not have any
calendar associated with it.
It does not have any time
zone associated with it.
It is simply a point in time.
So for example, here is now.
And of course, as we know,
time extends into the past and
goes forward into the future.
That's all an NSDate is.
It's just a point in time.
We can format a date for visual
consumption using an NSDate formatter.
An NSDate formatter converts a date
to and from human readable form.
It is created automatically with
the current system settings.
It is locale sensitive,
as we saw earlier how the name
of the month was automatically
translated for us into Thai.
And by far the easiest way to
convert a date into a string
is to use the class method,
localizeStringFromDate, dateStyle,
timeStyle.
The dateStyle and timeStyle
parameters allow you to tell the
date formatter whether you want
no date and simply want the time,
whether you want a long style,
so for example,
the full spelled out name of the
month and day with the year and so on.
That's really going to cover
about 90% of your use cases.
However, there are times where you may
need to specify a format string.
Well,
You think you do,
but you should really avoid
doing that as much as possible.
Let's see this example,
where we want to format
a date with the month,
the day, and the year.
So we put in the format string m/dd/yyyy.
When we localize a date
using this date formatter,
we'll get this.
For our users in the United States,
that may be the correct format.
However, for your users in China,
that is not how they display dates.
And that is wrong.
So what you should instead do is
use the appropriate date style,
in this case a short date style.
And now your dates will be
correctly localized according to
the user's settings and preferences.
So for your users in China,
they will see dates according
to their preference.
And for your users in the United States,
they will see dates formatted according
to their preferences and format settings.
But what about for situations
where the date and time
styles don't meet your needs?
The date styles generally
show the full year-month day.
But what if you just want to
show the month in the day?
Well for that,
you might try doing something like this,
just using the month and
the day format string.
Well, for your users in France,
they'll get the name of the month
followed by the day of the month.
And for your users in China,
they will get the month
with the appropriate month
symbol followed by the day.
These are both wrong.
So what should you be doing instead?
There is a class method
on NSDateFormatter called
DateFormatFromTemplateOptionsLocale.
This is a method that allows you
to pass that same format string
you would have used and get a
localized version of that string
according to the locale you pass in.
So we'll take that same
date format string,
asking for the month and the day,
and passing in our current locale,
and it will return a format string.
Doesn't matter what the string is,
we just take it and set it
into our date formatter.
Now when we localize our date,
we can see that the date format string
for our users in France returns the
day before the name of the month.
And for your users in China,
you will get the month followed
by the day with the appropriate
symbols after each component.
Occasionally, we may ask our users to
type in a date for us,
or we may receive a date over a
network connection and we'll need
to parse it into an NSDate object.
We need to remember in these
situations to explicitly configure
the date formatter object.
So let's say we are given the
string 06-15-2012 and we want
to turn it into an NSDate.
If we simply do this,
then perhaps in many situations
we'll get the correct NSDate.
But if our users are, say,
using the Japanese imperial calendar,
where the current year is the year 24,
then 6/15/2012 represents a date that
is nearly 2,000 years in the future.
Or if your users are
using the Hebrew calendar,
the date 6/15/2012 represents a date
that is 3,500 years in the past.
So how do we fix this?
We need to tell the date formatter
what calendaring system we're using.
And so we instantiate the
appropriate NSCalendar object,
and then we tell the date formatter,
use this calendar for
interpreting this date.
What is NSCalendar?
Optionally,
there are times where you will
receive an unlocalized date.
Perhaps it's a timestamp
given to you by a server.
In this case, you can use the C function,
strptime_l, to parse that string into a
time interval from which you can
then construct an NSDate object.
So,
this is all being driven by NSCalendar.
NSCalendar is an object that
represents a calendaring system.
We have support for
the Gregorian calendar,
of course, Japanese, Imperial, Persian,
Islamic, Hebrew, Buddhist,
many different calendars.
And this calendar object contains all
of the calculations and transformations
and algorithms necessary to
properly convert between strings
and dates in that calendaring system.
It can also do things like
Adding intervals to dates.
Say you want to add one week to a date.
It can handle that as well.
So if we have time again,
today is June 15, 2012.
So we have an NSDate object
representing today.
This is that NSDate formatted
according to the Gregorian calendar.
However,
that same NSDate can be formatted
in many different ways depending on
what calendar object we are using.
Remember that an NSDate is simply
a wrapper around a time interval.
Since it contains no inherent
calendaring information,
we need to use a calendar to turn
that into a human readable date.
So these seven examples are
all the same NSDate object,
just formatted using different calendars.
Another problem that we run into
sometimes when trying to parse a string
into a date is forgetting the time zone.
So when we are parsing a
date and storing a date,
we need to remember what
time zone we are in.
So for example, let's say we have this
string representing a little
bit earlier this morning,
and we want to turn it into an NSDate.
Well, if we simply just construct a
date formatter and set the format,
then for our users in San Francisco,
being seven hours behind
Greenwich Mean Time,
they will get an NSDate for
9.42 that morning.
However, your users in Beijing,
being eight hours ahead
of Greenwich Mean Time,
will also get an NSDate representing
their 9.42 in the morning.
This is incorrect.
What we instead need to do
is tell the date formatter,
this string is actually in
Greenwich Mean Time already.
Then when we try to parse it,
for users in San Francisco,
they will get 2:42 in the morning,
being seven hours behind GMT.
And for your users in Beijing,
they will get 5:42 in the evening,
being eight hours ahead.
You do not need to worry about adding
time intervals to the date yourself.
Simply use the correct time zone
when configuring your date formatter.
So NSTimeZone.
All it is is simply another
wrapper around a time offset.
Except this one,
instead of being relative
to a specific point in time,
is relative to coordinated
universal time.
So, if we have time again,
with a date representing now,
then we can format that same
NSDate object in many different
ways simply by changing the
time zone of the date formatter.
So 4:42 PM is the same date as 9:42
AM in Pacific Daylight Time and is
the same NSDate as 1:42 AM in Japan.
So,
some tips on dealing with dates properly.
How many of you have seen this before?
86,400, or 24 times 60 times 60.
99% of the time,
this is the wrong thing to use.
One date is not 86,400 seconds.
One day is not 24 hours.
Let's say we have a date
corresponding to March 10th,
2012 at 11:50 p.m.
and we want to add 24 hours to it.
So we add 86,400,
expecting March 11th at 11:50
p.m., but we're surprised to find
that we actually get March 12th.
What's going on?
Well, in many places around the world,
March 11th is when the daylight
savings time transition happened.
And so there were only
23 hours on that day.
So by explicitly adding 24 hours,
we have ended up with the wrong result.
What should we do to fix this?
Well, we can simply construct an
NSDateComponents object.
And we tell it to represent one
day and then ask our calendar to
add one day to that date for us.
And NS Calendar is smart enough
to know about things like
daylight savings time transitions.
It will correctly handle
days that are 23 hours long,
24 and 25 hours long.
And so when we add one day
to March 10th at 11:50 PM,
we correctly get March 11th at 11:50 PM.
This is done, as I mentioned,
using the date components class.
NSDate components represent
portions of a calendrical date.
NSDate, as we remember,
is a point in time.
NSDate components are the various parts
of a formatted human readable date.
And as we saw,
it can be a relative difference.
So, for example,
if we have this NSDate components object,
we can set the month to 13,
the date to 3, and the year to 2000.
Now this can be perhaps
an interval of 13 months,
three days, and 2,000 years.
Or if we were to use a calendar to
convert this back into an NSDate,
then in some calendaring
systems which have 13 months,
that might be the third day of
the 13th month of the 2000th year.
If we use a calendar like
the Gregorian calendar,
for example, we could actually get
January 3rd of the year 2001.
NS calendar will handle
unit rollovers for us.
There are times where we may
need to know how long a unit is.
Say we're building a calendaring
app and we want to know how
many months should we draw.
Well, we should not assume there are 12,
because many calendars have 13.
So we can ask our calendar,
how long are months?
How many months in a year do you have?
And we'll get back 13 in many situations,
perhaps 12 in others.
We can also ask how long is
this unit for a specific date?
So given a date of June 15th,
we can ask how many days are
in that month and we will get
back an NS range of 1 to 30.
That means that the first day
of the month is the first and
there are 30 days in that month.
Should not try to hard code in
a leap year algorithm yourself.
Simply use NSCalendar to
ask how many days are in,
for example, February.
And it will tell you either 28 or 29,
depending on the year.
We talked a little bit earlier about
date templates and localizing format
strings when the built-in options
don't allow for what we want to do.
There is a special case to this,
and that is with time.
How should we know whether to use
AM or PM when displaying a time?
Do we know whether the user prefers 1
through 12 with an AM or PM or perhaps 0
through 23 or perhaps even 1 through 24?
We can use a special template called J.
When you run j through the date format
from template method on NSDateFormatter,
it will return a time format
string specific to that locale.
So in the United States,
which uses an AM and PM,
you will get back 1 through
12 and an AM and PM.
Or for your users in France,
you will get 00 through 23.
And it will also correctly
handle whether or not the AM and
PM should come before the hour,
such as in China or Korea.
So you can use J for formatting an
hour according to your user's settings.
The final thing to remember
when dealing with dates is that
1+1 does not always equal 2.
Let's say we have these three months,
January, February, and March.
And we want to add two months.
to January 31st.
So we add one month and get
the last day of February,
the 28th.
And we add one month again
and end up with March 28th.
Well, March 28th isn't really two
months after January 31st.
So when doing date additions like this,
you should always be doing your
additions relative to your starting
date and not to any intermediate dates.
If we start with January 31st and
simply add two months directly to it,
we will end up with
the correct March 31st.
So don't use intermediate
dates for date calculations.
Let's talk about numbers.
Numbers are fairly simple.
Like NSDateFormatter,
we have a built-in class
called NSNumberFormatter,
and it is similar to
DateFormatter in many respects.
It is initialized with your
current system settings and
as such is locale sensitive.
And by far the easiest way to
format a number for human readable
display is using a class method,
localized string from number with
a corresponding number style.
The number styles that we provide
cover a variety of options.
There's general.
You can format for currency,
format as a percentage,
format in scientific notation,
and also format the number spelled out.
One thing to point out here is that when
you format a number as a percentage,
it is actually multiplied by 100.
So if you want to format a number as
50%, you should be passing in 0.5.
If you were to pass in 50 to be localized
as-- or to be formatted as a percentage,
you would end up with 5,000%.
NSNumberFormatter is also
sensitive to the user's locale.
It will use the correct
character set for the digits.
decimal and grouping separator.
Many places in Europe, for example,
use the comma as the decimal separator.
It will also use the correct
currency symbol of your user's
locale and will even handle
symbols like the percentage sign.
There are some things to be aware of,
though.
When you're parsing a number
or a string as a number,
you should avoid using
methods such as int value on
NSString or functions like scanf.
The simple example is trying
to parse the string ASDF.
If we were to ask that
string for its int value,
we would get back zero because
there is no number in that string.
However, if we have the string zero
and ask for its int value,
we also get back zero.
And so there is no way to disambiguate
whether or not the source string
was actually a number or not.
So, of course,
we should use an NSNumber formatter.
And in our case,
we want it to be parsing numbers
according to the decimal style.
And now when we parse those strings,
we will get back nil for an invalid
number and we will get back an actual
NSNumber instance for the string zero.
Related to parsing is that of printing.
If we were to use methods such as
string with format or printf in order
to try and format a number for display,
we may try doing something like this.
Well, for users in the United States,
that might be correct.
However, for your users in Egypt,
that's incorrect.
First off, that's not the character set
they use for their digits.
So again, we should be using the
decimal style here.
And since NSNumber is locale sensitive,
it will use the correct character set
and the correct decimal separator.
In Mountain Lion and
iOS 6 is this method,
localize string with format.
I should clarify,
this method has been around for a while.
However,
prior to Mountain Lion and iOS 6,
when you tried to use this method,
it would only change the decimal
separator according to the locale.
This method has been updated
for Mountain Lion and iOS 6
to now do the correct thing.
And so the previous example works just as
well using localized string with format.
However, for compatibility reasons,
it will only have this
behavior for a while.
Dave DeLoong
With NSDateFormatter,
we can set a specific date format to use.
We can do the same thing
with an NSNumber formatter.
However, when we do so,
we are overriding any information
the locale might provide.
So if we wanted to format
a number like this,
With a currency symbol,
perhaps some thousands,
we have a thousands separator
and two decimal places.
Then for your users in the United States,
you might be getting the correct result.
However, for your users in China,
they don't use the dollar sign
for their currency symbol.
So instead,
I should be setting the number style to
ask it to format our number as currency.
And now we will get the correct
currency symbol being used.
Some tips for dealing with numbers.
The previous example showed
241.23 yuan as correct for China.
Well, yes and no.
It may be using the correct symbol,
but it might not be the correct number.
So don't forget to do unit conversion.
Just because you're using, you know,
[Transcript missing]
3 miles is not the same
thing as 3 kilometers,
so please convert your units.
Now, we don't provide any
unit conversion for you.
However, you can ask the NSLocale object
what you should be doing.
The Locale object will tell
you whether you should be
using the metric system or not.
It will also tell you what
currency code you should be using.
And using that information,
you can then perhaps call a web service
to convert the currency for you.
or simply do some unit
conversion for distance yourself.
Also, as we saw with dates,
using the strptime function,
we can do the same thing with unlocalized
numbers using the str2 whatever function.
So str2d for integers, str2f for floats,
and so on.
But really,
you want to use the predefined
formats as much as possible,
since they are the formats that
will take care of all of the
special edge cases for you.
Finally, let's talk about images.
There is a single overriding
rule to be aware of when dealing
with localizing your images.
And that is beware.
Localizing images is fraught with peril.
Let's say, for example,
that you're writing a children's
application and you have centered
your application around this wordplay,
be clever.
I think you're starting to understand
how this might be problematic.
You should really try to avoid any sort
of linguistic puns or word play when
dealing with images in your application.
For example, if we were to translate "be
clever" literally into Spanish,
we might end up with something
like "abeja inteligente," which
literally means "smart honeybee."
It's not what we're going for,
so please avoid doing any
sort of jokes with images.
The rare circumstances where
you will need to localize your
images are when you're dealing
with culture-specific content.
For example, let's say your children's
application has a stop sign in it,
and so you, being the internationally
savvy person you are,
have decided to just
ship the red octagon.
And then at runtime,
you're going to superimpose
the correct text,
whether it's in Arabic, French,
Portuguese, or Korean.
Well, then you start getting reports back
from your users in Japan saying
that their stop signs look funny.
Why is that?
Well, in Japan,
stop signs are actually triangles.
And so this is a situation where,
due to the culture,
you will need to localize your image
to account for that specific culture.
But again,
you would simply just ship the red
triangle image and then superimpose
the correct text at runtime.
This allows you to be
as flexible as possible.
However, there's nothing else you need to
really change because you can still
use the same image named methods
to retrieve the appropriate image.
Image named will go through
NSBundle to find the correct image,
and NSBundle takes your language
into account when finding
the correct resource to use.
There are also situations
where you have text in images.
This is usually a bad idea simply
because it really increases the
number of assets you have to ship.
But in case you do,
let's say you have a question
mark in an icon somewhere,
you may need to ship another version
that has the question mark inverted.
So what have we talked about today?
First off,
we've learned that standards vary.
Whether it's currency symbols
or how we spell months or
what images we should use,
standards vary from region to region.
And so we should be considerate
of how we spell months.
We've also learned that cultures vary.
Images that might make sense
to us in our locale might be
meaningless to other users.
Jokes that are funny to us may be
nonsensical to them or at worst
even horrendously offensive.
So please remember that not
everybody shares your culture.
As you're building your applications,
do not forget to test them,
both in your own language
and in other languages.
Pseudolocalization can help,
but it is not a panacea.
So please ask your beta testers to run
the application in other languages.
Ideally, they may even speak that
native language themselves.
And they can be the ones to let you know,
hey, your stop signs actually
need to be a triangle or hey,
that image is actually really crude.
And finally, please use the built-in
APIs as much as possible.
These are APIs that have been
over 20 years in development,
and nothing you can
do will approach that.
So please take advantage
of our hard work.
If you have more information,
you can contact our evangelist,
Paul Marcos.
There's also a really great
guide in the documentation called
"Introduction to Internationalization
Programming Topics." And of course,
you can go on to the dev forums
to ask for specific help.
There are some related sessions.
We've already talked about Auto Layout,
but please don't forget
about accessibility.
You have correctly
internationalized your UI.
But not all of your users can see
or not all of your users can hear.
Please remember to also
remember accessibility when
internationalizing your application.
Thank you for coming.